[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Today on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we're with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO ET
related intelligence.
Today we are
discussing an incident
at the air base in Germany.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>> Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> Now most people have heard
of Ramstein Air Force Base
in Germany.
Could you tell us a
little bit about what
you were doing there?
>> Well, I was assigned to
OSI Europe at Wiesbaden,
which is some distance
away from Ramstein.
But while I was
stationed in Europe
in the counterintelligence
section there,
I learned of an incident that
happened in 1974 at Ramstein.
And this incident involved
a US army artillery
unit, air defense artillery
unit, that shot down a UFO.
And that happened
northeast of Ramstein.
The air bases around Germany
were guarded by US army
anti-air defense forces.
The 30 second air
defense artillery force
was one of the units, and
they had different companies
around air bases protecting
them from enemy attack.
This anti-aircraft
artillery unit
used Vulcan cannons
and Chaparral missiles.
The Vulcan cannons were
housed on half track vehicles,
and they fired 6,000
rounds a minute.
And they could shoot
down low-flying aircraft.
The Chaparral missiles
were a larger missile.
They were based away
from the Vulcan missile,
and they were the
secondary defense unit
because they shot down
higher flying aircrafts.
If the aircraft-- enemy aircraft
got through the Vulcan system,
the Chaparral missiles
would bring them down.
And these were
conventional warheads
on the Chaparral missiles.
>> How do they identify
it in the first place,
and how did they bring it down?
>> OK, air defense artillery
systems operate their own
system.
But there's an ADOC, an Air
Defense Operation Center,
which was in Kindsbach,
a few miles away.
The ADOC controlled all
the radar sites around
and all the air defense
artillery sites around Germany.
So they're the ones that would
have picked something up,
this UFO or what they designated
later as a bogey on radar.
And they use bogey, and they
use a designation of a bogey,
bogey one, two as a designator.
So all the units had one word
and one designation in common.
This enemy, suspected enemy
aircraft, that's coming in
was designated bogey
one, which was then
considered a hostile aircraft.
>> What's a bogey two?
>> A bogey two is another craft,
another enemy craft coming in.
So bogey one would be one craft.
If there's two crafts
coming in, it'd
be a bogey one, a bogey two.
>> So how do we know if it's
a UFO or if it's a passenger
airliner compared to
a military aircraft?
>> They use a system called
Identification Friend, Foe,
or Neutral, IFFN, OK?
Once they identify the
craft as a non-hostile,
such as a neutral
craft, they give it
a designator of a friendly
craft, such as an airliner.
A bogey is only used when
it's a hostile aircraft.
>> Why did the Air Force
fire upon this UFO,
and what did they
use to fire upon it?
>> OK, the craft came in.
It was recorded on radar.
It was coming in
towards the air base.
The lieutenant that was in
charge of the missile battery
immediately contacted the
ADOC, the Air Defense Operation
Center, asking permission
to fire upon it.
They had to get special
permission to do that.
They were trying to identify it.
Several other
military units, one
being a comm unit, the
109th communications unit,
which was-- is always in the
same area with an air defense
artillery site.
They were trying to voice
communicate with this craft
in different languages.
They were using Russian,
I think, English, German,
and I'm not sure what other.
You're flying towards a base.
You're restricted air zone.
Deviate from your flight path.
They only wanted to
fire as a last resort.
They didn't want to
shoot down something
that could be a friendly.
Well, they went through all
the communication systems,
but the craft was still
coming towards the air base.
And when ADOC
eventually-- and they
had to get the commander of
the US Air Force or US Army
in Europe's permission
to fire upon it.
They got it.
And when they told
the missile battery,
go ahead and fire
on it, the craft
disappeared, only to reappear
at a different location
several minutes later.
Now they still-- they
already had permission
to fire up on it, so they did.
The lieutenant in charge
of the missile battery
told his Vulcan unit, fire.
So the Vulcan unit
fired upon this craft.
As it approached, the bullets
from the 20 millimeter
rounds from the
Vulcan cannon hit,
but it didn't bring it down.
It kept on going south towards
the air base, at which time
the lieutenant gave the orders
for the Chaparral battery
to fire up on the craft.
So the two Chaparral
missiles fired,
but both detonated
prior to hitting it.
The craft kept coming.
There's a second Vulcan
unit, what they call
the last zone of defense unit.
They fired and they
were very close to it.
That disabled the craft.
The craft started making
strange maneuvers in the air.
As it got close to the
ground, they fired at one--
only one Chaparral
missile, which
hit the craft and
the craft crashed.
>> Was there any threatening
provocation that inspired them
to do this, or is it just
because they're entering
our space?
>> Well, they were flying
directly towards Ramstein Air
Base.
Ramstein Air Base
at that time in 1974
was the command
for all Air Force
bases in Europe, not just in
Germany but all of Europe.
It was a very
important base, had
nuclear weapons on that base.
And so this air
defense artillery,
their mission is to
protect that air base.
Also on that base was
the 86 fighter squadron,
which contained fighter jets.
But that anti-aircraft
batteries were there
to protect that base, and
that's why they fired upon it.
>> Where did the UFO go down,
and how long did it take them
to get there?
>> The UFO crashed
in a field west,
some miles west of Ramstein.
>> But not on the base?
>> Not on the base.
It was off the base.
German police responded,
and they got there first.
The German police had an
Air Force security police
translator with him who was
communicating back to the base.
And when German
police got there,
the area around the
craft was on fire.
So they called the
German fire department
to respond, extinguish
the fire, and now they
have this craft that's
sitting on the ground.
Not knowing what it
is, the lieutenant
in charge of the anti-aircraft
battery arrived at scene.
He notified his
superiors that this craft
was ellipsoid in shape,
big craft, heavy metal.
He couldn't identify it.
And they were all
trained in that,
so if it was some
Russian craft or an East
German or a Czech craft,
they could identify it.
It wasn't anything
they'd ever seen before,
so immediately they
considered it a hostile craft.
So they set up a perimeter
around the craft.
Eventually, a 55 man infantry
unit from Kaiserslautern,
which was a short distance
away, responded and set up
a perimeter around it.
They brought in anti-aircraft
guns to shoot on this craft
if it was going to leave.
They also brought in an EOD
unit from Kapaun barracks,
because number one,
they thought it
might be some kind of a nuclear
weapon or some weapon system.
The EOD unit got there, and
this was early morning hours
of, I think, May 24th
of 1974, and they
were able to actually
open the bottom part
of the craft, the hatch.
And once the hatch was
open, the EOD personnel
had to dress in protective
personnel equipment.
And they used
anti-radiation suits
because they didn't
know what this was.
They immediately determined
there wasn't any radiation.
But when the two
EOD techs went in,
they found four dead bodies
in council, sitting in seats.
And when other emergency
response personnel, disaster
preparedness personnel,
they call, got to the scene,
they went in and took
these bodies out.
They immediately determined
them not to be humans.
They were some kind
of extraterrestrial,
they believed.
The EOD personnel couldn't
figure out what this was.
Probably determined it wasn't
any kind of nuclear weapon
or any kind of weapon.
It was probably a flying craft.
Obviously, they shot it down.
Then now they they're
stuck with this craft
on the ground with four
dead extraterrestrials,
and what to do from there?
>> And how large was the craft?
>> The craft was quite
large, 30 foot in diameter.
It was really tall.
And the strange
thing about it was
the craft wasn't that heavy.
Even though it was
big, the EOD personnel
actually were able to move
the craft with their truck.
They put a hoist on it, and
they were trying to move it.
And there was some reason
they had to move it.
I guess away from the fire.
And they were able to do it.
They were able to
move the craft, which
is very odd if it was--
>> Right.
>> --made of some kind of a
metal that can endure a flight
like that.
How could it be
lightweight enough to move?
But they were able to move it.
>> And where did they take it?
>> Well, they just moved
it away from the fire,
but eventually the Air Force
came in and transported
the craft to Ramstein Air Base.
They transported the
bodies of the entities.
They placed them in body
bags and transported them
to a mortuary
freezer in Ramstein,
and they secured them there.
And eventually, several
days later, a C-5A Galaxy,
big craft--
>> Oh, yeah.
The biggest.
>> --a cargo plane, one of our
biggest cargo planes in the Air
Force inventory, was able
to take the UFO on board.
And I believe they
also took the bodies
and flew them to
Nellis Air Force Base--
>> Nellis, right.
>> --and eventually to Area 51.
>> What did those
bodies look like?
Did you get to see any pictures,
videos, besides the briefing?
>> Yes, I did.
The bodies were about
three foot, maybe.
They weren't very big.
They were probably
three foot, and I
don't think they were
any more than three foot.
They had helmets.
The pictures that
I saw had helmets.
They had smaller arms than
I'd seen on extraterrestrials.
Normally, the arms are longer.
These weren't that long,
but they were laying down.
The pictures that I saw, they
were lying down in a coffin.
They had very distorted
looking fingers, four of them,
but they had what appears to
be some kind of protrusions
on each finger.
>> Like bulbous, or
something coming out of them?
>> Maybe bulbous or suction
devices or something.
And, of course, I'm
looking at a picture,
and I can't really tell
from that picture what they
actually-- but there
was some kind of object,
some kind of growths or
maybe some kind of a--
>> Right.
>> --a gland maybe or
something like that.
I couldn't see the face.
It had a helmet on.
>> What did the
helmets look like?
>> The helmet was a clear--
it looked like a fully
cleared heavy helmet.
It had a visor,
but I couldn't see
into the visor based on the
angle of the camera, whoever
took the picture of it.
And it had wide
appendages on the side,
like maybe earphones
or something.
And it had a wire, some
kind of wire that came down
from the bottom of the helmet.
Now that might
have been attached
to a tube before or something,
but that's all I could see it.
>> Were they wearing a uniform?
What was the color
of the bodies?
>> They had some sort of,
I think, flight suit on.
It was tight fitting.
I couldn't really
distinguish-- it
appeared to be a uniform
and not their skin.
But in the picture, you
can't tell everything,
and it appeared to be some
sort of a grayish uniform.
And they also had boots on.
They had very, very
heavy looking, thick--
I would call them boots.
They might have been some kind
of anti-gravity or something,
as I was told later
they were, I think,
anti-gravity or
some kind of boots.
But they were thick and they
were larger, more distorted
than their leg would be.
So they were very, very
large boots on there.
>> Interesting.
And what about the craft?
What did the craft
look like inside?
>> The craft had
seats, four seats.
The seats were metal seats, and
they had an instrument panel.
And they had indentations
rather than buttons and knobs
and switches.
They had small indentations
all over this instrument panel,
as if the part of
the skin or whatever
it is on of the
end of the fingers
would fit into
those indentations
to either operate
the craft or operate
the equipment around the craft.
The craft also had small
portals on the top of the dome.
>> Portals?
>> Portals, small, round portals
as if you could look in and out
of the craft.
Had a-- some kind of a device
or some kind of a metal thing
that came out from the ceiling,
almost like a lighting system.
But it came out
and had arms on it
with these bulbs
around the arms.
On each one of the arms
on the inside of the arms
is if maybe the lighting
system or some other--
I was told later they think it
was some sort of a navigation
tool used.
>> Interesting.
>> And the propulsion system
wasn't found out or determined
until it got to Area 51.
And I never learned about
the propulsion system.
>> So were you able to learn
anything after that when it got
to Nellis?
Did they keep it
there, do some testing,
then send it to Area 51?
Or was that just a drop
spot and then refuel and go?
>> No, I think they just
flew into Dallas, refueled,
because it probably flew
nonstop from Ramstein to Nellis.
And then they flew to
Area 51, and that was
the final destination for the--
I'm sure the entities and
the-- the dead entities
and the craft.
And what they did there as
far as reverse engineering,
I wasn't privy to.
>> Do you have any ideas where
they possibly would have come
from?
>> The people that examined the
craft at Ramstein found some
of these thin--
they call them
almost carbon paper.
But they were very
sturdy, and they
found these thin
carbon documents
they determined to
be maps later in one
of the containers
inside the craft.
They brought them out.
They opened them up, and it
was a form of a star chart.
And there were many of them.
There were probably 50 of them.
And they weren't sure
exactly how they worked,
but if you opened them up they
fit perfectly on the monitor.
So if they placed
those star charts--
I'm calling them star charts--
on this monitor, there
was pinpoints along--
on this map or star map, which
would probably indicate either
a navigational chart
they used to navigate
our solar system, or--
but on one of the
charts, they determined
it to be our solar system.
The planets, I mean, they
weren't named or anything,
but they could distinguish
there were nine planets and then
our sun.
So they knew that they had
a chart of our solar system.
I don't think they determined
where this craft came from.
But once all this information
got to Area 51, who knows?
Maybe the experts were there,
or one of our guest ETs
were there that could
translate it and figure out
where it came from.
>> So we don't know what
happened to the beings,
correct, after that?
They just were taken?
>> They were taken to Area
51, and I'm sure they were
autopsied, but I never learned.
I tried.
I'm sure there's information
out there somewhere,
but I never learned.
>> In these containers were
there any other things besides
these carbon star
charts you speak of?
Did they find any tools or
weapons or supplies or food
pellets?
>> They found a
lot of components.
They found-- they call them
components, objects, devices,
which no one knew
what they were for.
I mean, some of
them were in bins.
Some of them were in the open.
Some of them were around the
display panel by their seats.
They found a
compartment, and I'm not
sure which part of
the craft it was in,
that was they think tools.
They opened it up and
there were these--
they thought they were some
form of tools in there.
But as far as I know,
at least at the scene
they couldn't determine what
these devices or objects
or components were for.
I'm sure they did at Area
51 eventually sometime.
>> Right.
They probably went through
a whole list of things
to test them and probably
try to reverse engineer them.
>> I'm sure by now that we have.
>> Right.
So what is your take on it?
I mean, what's
your personal take
on the crash, the involvement?
What's your opinion of
why they would come there,
and how we handled the
situation as humans?
>> Well, I wasn't in a position
to make a determination
but others later did, and they
think one particular colonel,
a flight operations
officer at Ramstein,
wrote in a report that was
his opinion that the craft was
having problems.
The intent wasn't to land.
The intent wasn't to
fly towards Ramstein.
The craft had problems.
And when they analyzed the
signatures on the radar
and comparing to what that
forward observers saw--
now, in every air
artillery unit,
they had forward observers.
They were visually out there
with binoculars, watching it,
and those observers
saw the craft
flying in strange patterns.
Of course, that could be evasive
flying for an enemy aircraft
coming into a hostile zone.
But one of the
radio transmissions
by one of the forward
observers-- now
the forward observers were Air
Force combat controllers type.
One of them said, I think
this craft has a problem.
It's flying erratically.
That was in the recordings
made by the controllers.
So this colonel that
wrote this report said
is his opinion based on all
the facts that he had was
that thing was coming
in not as a hostile act,
but they had some kind
of a problem on board.
>> Rick, what about
today's protocol?
Has it changed since then much
if there is a craft coming in,
or is it still the same,
OK, they're not veering off.
We need to disable this craft.
>> Well, as of when I
went in and I had access
to information, most of these
crafts were so highly advanced
that our weapon systems
couldn't track them, number one.
And the way our weapons
systems worked in the Air Force
is the pilot would see the
enemy and would lock on to it,
and then it would
fire it, this missile.
The problem we had with
extraterrestrial crafts
is we couldn't lock on to it.
>> Right
>> Number one, our ranged radio
signals which cause the lock
on wouldn't work.
They would either be
jammed, or the signal as it
hit the craft would be absorbed
so there wouldn't be any return
signal to the Air Force craft.
So there wouldn't be any way
for our craft to lock onto it.
We could and the
pilots could-- they
had the ability to
fire blindly and hope
that the missile,
heat seeking if it was
or radar seeking, whatever,
would hit the craft.
But then again, if
they fired at it,
and there's been numerous
cases of us firing at it.
Not just us, but
German, South African,
Iranian, Russian, Chinese
over the period of years
tried to lock on and shoot it.
And either the missile
or rocket would
detonate prior to
hitting the craft,
or it would not detonate,
or it would veer off course.
>> It sounded like when they
were coming in and on the first
attack when we
shot those rockets,
you said it kind of disappeared.
It dematerialized and then
rematerialized somewhere else.
Was it going off course
then or still on course?
>> Well, the radar lost it
for that brief time period.
Now it could have been they were
jamming, maybe their last ditch
effort.
Maybe they had so many
problems inside that ET craft
that they were--
let's jam it like we would do.
>> Right.
>> Maybe they were doing that
and they veered off course
and then they got back on
course, and they had no--
and I think probably that
first volley of Vulcans
damaged the aircraft even more.
Whatever was wrong
with that craft,
they had some kind of
disablement inside that craft.
The Vulcan missiles
hitting it added to it.
>> Now is there a joint
collaboration with all
the countries that you've
mentioned when there is a UFO
sighting or when there's
a UFO being shot down?
>> Well, there is.
There's a central collection
station for some countries, not
all the countries.
And that's the North
American Air Defense Command
at NORAD in Cheyenne Mountain.
All friendly
countries-- now NORAD
just doesn't operate the air
defense for the United States
and Canada, but they also
have a central depository
for bogeys or unidentified
crafts flying anywhere
around the world.
Nowadays, NORAD can control
air sectors all over the United
States because of
the satellite's.
Back when it was
first formed, it
was just had radar sites
all over the United
States and Canada that was
controlling only North America.
Now they can control everything.
And there are certain countries
who cooperate with us.
All friendly countries.
Of course, Germany and the
NATO countries cooperated.
Japan cooperates.
Of course, South Korea
would cooperate with us,
Australia, New Zealand.
Now the other
countries that I named,
such as Russia,
Iran, or China, we
have listening posts and
spy satellites all over that
can keep track of
these countries.
So when they encounter
something like this,
it might take a
little bit of time,
but we're going to
eventually know about it.
They're not going
to advertise it.
Russia is not going to
advertise what they just did,
but we're going to collect
it through intelligence,
communications intelligence,
human intelligence,
or some other
satellite intelligence.
>> So let's say with NATO, who
determines who's going to get
this craft?
Who, then, gets these bodies?
Who's going to get
these artifacts?
You mentioned a lot that--
of course, everything
goes to Nellis, Area 51.
These are all hot spots we
know in the United States
where we keep a
lot of this stuff.
But why isn't England and Norway
and Japan, why aren't these--
who determines where it goes?
>> I'm not sure who
would determine it,
but these countries--
I know of some instances,
such as the incident that
occurred in England or Britain
where the British government
felt that it would be more
advantageous for the United
States, which had more
resources and more technology,
to examine something
than they did.
So they would turn it over to--
and I'm sure, although
I don't know for a fact,
but I'm sure that Norway
and other countries
would do the same thing.
Germany, I know Germany
would cooperate.
The only one I
really know about,
Germany and the
Netherlands and Britain.
>> Do you think Ramstein
Air Force base was a magnet
for this craft and other craft
because of its capabilities
of nuclear activation?
>> Well, Ramstein Air Base
had probably the most nuclear
weapons in Europe.
They had a huge weapon storage
area in Ramstein in 1974.
>> Big depot there, yeah.
>> Big depot, and they
had weapons systems there.
And not only did the
Air Force have weapons,
Miesau Army Depot, which
was a short distance
away about 10 miles, had nuclear
weapons, artillery rounds,
nuclear weapons.
And plus, they had
nuclear-tipped Knight missiles
and Sergeant missiles, which
also guarded bases over there.
So it very well--
it would make sense
that this extraterrestrial race
wanted to maybe recon the area.
They had some way
of determining which
bases had nuclear
weapons, and they came in
for a reconnaissance mission
and something went wrong.
>> Rick, once again,
fascinating intelligence.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
>> It's my pleasure, Emery.
>> I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]